
            


  





  
    
      
        Mini-Exam 3  - Retake
      
    
    
      

      
        

      
    
  
    

  
    Due
    
          
              Sep 2 by 11:59pm
          
  
    
      Points
      50
    
    
      Submitting
      an external tool
    
  
  
    Available
    
        after Mar 13 at 12am
    
  

  



  
    
Instructions

The Mini-Exam is accessible from Monday 12:00 am to Wednesday 11:59 pm (Pacific Time).

Notes: You may ONLY use a non-graphing calculator. NO additional resources, tools, webpages, homework, nor or peers may be used.

Download/Upload/View this exam from the assignment in Gradescope:  252-400-S23 course.

Once you Open/View the exam, you have 75 minutes to complete AND upload your exam solutions.  A timer is on the Gradescope page, top-right, and will continue even if you close the page.

This is a 50 minute exam, with an extra 25 minutes to scan/picture and submit, totally 75 minutes.  

Formatting


Print it (electronic pen or tablet is OK) completing it neatly showing all work right on the exam, and placing answers in the given boxes.

Can't Print?  You are invited to work on the exam on your own paper mirroring everything on the exam. Please do NOT rewrite all the problems. Just submit written solutions using this template.


Your final document should be One PDF file with 6 pages uploaded.
Template: ME3-Retake-Template.pdfDownload ME3-Retake-Template.pdf 

Page 1: Coversheet with name and signature.
Page 2: Solutions 1
Page 3: Solutions 2
Page 4: Solution 3
Page 5: Solution 4
Page 6: Solution 5ab


Submission Details

Submissions can be handwritten and scanned, completed on a tablet, or typeset.  

The phone/tablet APP CamScanner-Free Links to an external site. is a simple way to "scan" the written material as a PDF and upload it through your phone's Canvas Student App.

Provide full solutions to all problems.
Click the link below to open Gradescope. Submit your file as one PDF.

Due Date
This exam opens Monday of week 3 at 12:00 am and closes Wednesday of week 3 at 11:59 pm Pacific Time.
Late Submissions

Up to 5 minutes late: 7.5% penalty
Between 5 minutes and 30 minutes late: 30% penalty
Submissions more than 30 minutes late after the original assignment is opened will NOT be accepted. 
Doubts? Email your instructor immediately with an ATTACHED copy of the exam. 

Grading
This activity is worth 50 points.
Practice Problems

Students need to have memorized antiderivatives for function types equivalent to:


Polynomials.
Poly-powers, sums/differences of power functions. 
Sine, cosine, and secant squared.
e^x and 1/x.
and substitution (U-Sub) applied to all of the function types above. 

Practice Problems and Info:

3.1: Integration by Parts - Students will only have to apply IBP once, not twice or more. Must have the IBP formula memorized.

Practice: 9, 11, 12, 16, 17, 41, 42.


3.2: Trig Integrals - Only the Pythagorean identity involving sine/cosine and tangent/secant will be on the mini-exam. NO 1/2-angle power-reduction identities on this mini-exam. 

Practice: 83, 84, 85, 109.


3.3: Trig Substitution - Only the structure/substitution for x = a sin(theta)  and  x =a tan(theta) will be on the mini-exam.

Be prepared for Setup-ONLY problems OR if given an antiderivative in theta, use a reference triangle to convert to the variable x and get a final answer. 
Practice trig sub problems all the way through and using the triangle to convert back to x. 
Identify (1) when you have converted and simplified the integral in theta, and (2) found an antiderivative and converted the antiderivative back to a function in "x"
Review OpenStax Example 3.21 to see an example of what was discussed at the end of class about having a theta as an antiderivative. 
Practice: 134, 137, 140, 153, 158.


3.4: Partial Fraction Decomposition - This will be a Setup-ONLY problem and possibly the need to appropriately equate coefficients. You will NOT have to solve for coefficients or evaluate integrals on this. 

Practice: 189, 188, 190, 191, 195, 202, 211




  





  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
  
      
          This tool needs to be loaded in a new browser window
          
              
                  Load Mini-Exam 3  - Retake in a new window
              
          
      
      
          This tool was successfully loaded in a new browser window. Reload the page to access the tool again.
      
  
  






  



  
    
      
      
      
    
    

  
    
      
        Description
          
        
        
          Please include a description
        
      
      
        Long Description
          
        
      
      
        Cancel
        Update Criterion
      
    
  
  
    
    
  


  
  
    
      Additional Comments:
    
    
    
      Cancel
      Update Comments
    
  
  
    Additional Comments:
    
    
  


  
    
  
  
    
      
        Rating Score
        Rating max score
        
        to >
          
        pts
      
      
        Rating Title
        
        
          Please include a rating title
        
      
      
        Rating Description
        
      
      
        Cancel
        Update Rating
      
    
  


  
  
  
    
      
        Rubric
      
    
    
      
        
          Title:
          
        
        
           Find Rubric
        
        
          
            Please include a title
          
        
      

      
        
          Find a Rubric
        
      

      
        Title
      
      
        You've already rated students with this rubric. Any major changes could affect their assessment results.
      

      
        
        
          
        
           
           
           
           
           
           
             
          
           
           
             
        
      
      
        Can't change a rubric once you've started using it.
           
      
    

    
      
        
          Title
        
      
      
        
          Criteria
          Ratings
          
            Pts
          
        
      
      
        

  
    
      
        
          
          This criterion is linked to a Learning Outcome
        
        
          Description of criterion
          
          
            
              
            
          
            threshold:
            5 pts
          
        
        
          
            
              
              
                Range
              
            
          
        
      

      
          Edit criterion description
          Delete criterion row
      
    
  
  
      
          
            
              
                
                  
                    5
                    to >0 pts
                  
                  Full Marks
                  
                
                blank
                  
                    
                      
                    
                    
                      
                    
                  
              
                
                  
                
            
          
          
            
              
                
                  
                    0
                    to >0 pts
                  
                  No Marks
                  
                
                blank_2
                  
                    
                      
                    
                    
                      
                    
                  
              
            
          
      
      
        This area will be used by the assessor to leave comments related to this criterion.
      
  
  
    
      
           pts
      
    
    
      
        
            /
        
        5 pts
      
    
    
       -- 
    
    
        
          
        
        
    
  


      
  
    
      
        
          
          This criterion is linked to a Learning Outcome
        
        
          Description of criterion
          
          
            
              
            
          
            threshold:
            5 pts
          
        
        
          
            
              
              
                Range
              
            
          
        
      

      
          Edit criterion description
          Delete criterion row
      
    
  
  
      
          
            
              
                
                  
                    5
                    to >0 pts
                  
                  Full Marks
                  
                
                blank
                  
                    
                      
                    
                    
                      
                    
                  
              
                
                  
                
            
          
          
            
              
                
                  
                    0
                    to >0 pts
                  
                  No Marks
                  
                
                blank_2
                  
                    
                      
                    
                    
                      
                    
                  
              
            
          
      
      
        This area will be used by the assessor to leave comments related to this criterion.
      
  
  
    
      
           pts
      
    
    
      
        
            /
        
        5 pts
      
    
    
       -- 
    
    
        
          
        
        
    
  

    

    
      
        
      
      
        Total Points:
          5 out of 5
        
      
    
  
  
    
      
        
          
          I'll write free-form comments when assessing students
        
      
        
          
            
            Remove points from rubric
          
        
        
          
            
            Don't post Outcomes results to Learning Mastery Gradebook
          
        
        
          
            
            Use this rubric for assignment grading
          
        
      
        
          
          Hide score total for assessment results
        
      
      
        
          Cancel
          Create Rubric
        
      
    
  


  

  
  





  
  






          