
            

  



    Module 4 | Oscillations | Required Activities
  
    
Required Study
Please Note: Be sure to check the syllabus view for all due dates.

Read Chapter 15 from the course textbook. 
Read and study the course web pages on OscillationsLinks to an external site.

Required Activities
Be sure to check the syllabus view for all due dates. 



Complete the online homework assignment: Hw 6
Complete all of the pre-lecture activities for credit for this unit.

M4-1pre
M4-2pre
M4-3pre





 



Choose Option A or B. Complete all participation assignments* (due throughout the week - see syllabus view). 



Option A: Participate live during each live Zoom lecture.

Join a live Zoom lecture.
Use Poll Everywhere during the lecture.
Post in Canvas (instructions given during live lecture).



Option B: Participate asynchronously by watching the recorded Lecture Videos (posted at the bottom of the Learning Materials page for this module) and completing the following:



M4-1asy
M4-2asy
M4-3asy









Complete the Lab




Next Steps
Be sure to complete all activities on time. You can check all due dates for the above activities by going to the syllabus view or clicking on each activity. When all of the activities of this module have been completed, move on to the next module. Please see the syllabus for the dates connected to each module. Be sure you have completed all of the steps for this module:
It is required to watch the Zoom lecture recording if you did not attend a Zoom lecture. They are posted in the Learning Materials page for each module, toward the bottom of the page, under "Lecture Videos."
Complete all pre-lecture questions for credit for this unit. For these activities, you only have two attempts for each activity (one attempt for multiple-choice questions). They will be posted 48 hours before the due date/time and due one hour before the Zoom lecture, with correct answers are shown just after the due date/time. Late submission not accepted.
Complete all participation assignments. This can be done during the Zoom lecture using Poll Everywhere If you do not attend the Zoom lecture, you can submit an equivalent asynchronous assignment posted after the Zoom lecture.You can get credit for one or the other, but not both. If you participate during a Zoom lecture, you do not need to do the asynchronous assignment ( If you complete M1-1 for example, you do not need to do M1-1asy). If you miss part of the questions during the Zoom lecture and want to complete the equivalent asynchronous assignment, you can do so, and you will be given credit for the asynchronous assignment. 







          