Module 5 | Waves | Required Activities
Required Study

Please Note: Be sure to check the syllabus view for all due dates. 

Read Chapters 16 and 17 from the course textbook. Click on MyLab and Mastering in the vertical menu to the left and open the digital textbook.
Read and study the course web pages on waves
Links to an external site.
 and superposition
Links to an external site.
Required Activities

Be sure to check the syllabus view for all due dates. 

Complete the online homework assignment: Hw 7
Complete all of the pre-lecture activities for credit for this unit 
M5-1pre
M5-2pre
M5-3pre
M5-4pre
M5-5pre
M5-6pre
M5-7pre

Complete the Lab

Participation: choose Option A or B. Complete all participation assignments* (due throughout the week - see syllabus view). 
Option A: Participate live during each live Zoom lecture.

Join a live Zoom lecture.
Use Poll Everywhere during the lecture.

Note: You can get credit for participation once for each assignment. If you do the assignment in Poll Everywhere, you do not need to do the asynchronous assignment. 

A zero will appear in the Canvas grade book if you do not complete the Poll Everywhere assignment. It will be deleted when your asynchronous assignment is graded.

	

Option B: Participate asynchronously by watching the recorded Lecture Videos (posted at the bottom of the Learning Materials page for the module).

After a video is posted, you can access the corresponding asynchronous participation assignment here: 

M5-1asy
M5-2asy
M5-3asy
M5-4asy
M5-5asy
M5-6asy
M5-7asy

Feel free to switch back and forth between live participation and asynchronous participation as your schedule allows.

 

5. Take Quiz 3:

Quiz 3 notes: You are required to submit 1/2 to 1 page (8.5"x11") of equations, diagrams, etc of material pertinent to this quiz. Place photo ID on top of your notes and scan for upload to Gradescope.

All work shown for written questions must be in your own handwriting.

Option 1: Take the quiz asynchronously.

Quiz 3A_asy (Remotely Proctored)
Quiz 3A_asy_work
Quiz 3B_asy (Remotely Proctored)
Quiz 3B_asy_work
	

Option 2: Join a live Zoom session and take the quiz then.

Quiz 3A
Quiz 3A_6pm
Quiz 3B
Quiz 3B_6pm
Extra credit assignment available after Quiz 3 scores are posted
Quiz3x not available summer term

Next Steps

Be sure to complete all activities on time. You can check all due dates for the above activities by going to the syllabus view or clicking on each activity. When all of the activities of this module have been completed, move on to the next module. Please see the syllabus for the dates connected to each module. Be sure you have completed all of the steps for this module:

It is required to watch the Zoom lecture recording if you did not attend a Zoom lecture. They are posted in the Learning Materials page for each module, toward the bottom of the page, under "Lecture Videos."

Complete all pre-lecture questions for credit for this unit. For these activities, you only have two attempts for each activity (one attempt for multiple-choice questions). They will be posted 48 hours before the due date/time and due one hour before the Zoom lecture, with correct answers are shown just after the due date/time. Late submission not accepted.


Complete all participation assignments. This can be done during the Zoom lecture using Poll Everywhere. If you do not attend the Zoom lecture, you can submit an equivalent asynchronous assignment posted after the Zoom lecture.
You can get credit for one or the other, but not both. If you participate during a Zoom lecture, you do not need to do the asynchronous assignment ( If you complete M1-1 for example, you do not need to do M1-1asy). If you miss part of the questions during the Zoom lecture and want to complete the equivalent asynchronous assignment, you can do so, and you will be given credit for the asynchronous assignment. 

Previous
Next