Mini-Exam 1 - Tues - Thur (No late submissions)
Due Jul 9 by 11:59pm Points 50 Submitting an external tool Available after Jun 30 at 12am

Instructions
The Mini-Exam is accessible from Tuesday 12:00 am to Thursday 11:59 pm (Pacific Time).
Notes: You may ONLY use a non-graphing calculator. NO additional resources, tools, webpages, homework, nor or peers may be used.
Download/Upload/View this exam from the assignment in Gradescope:  252-400 course.
In Gradescope, once you Open/View the exam, you have 75 minutes to complete AND upload your exam solutions.  A timer is on the Gradescope page, top-right, and will continue even if you close the page.
This is a 50 minute exam, with an extra 25 minutes to scan/picture and submit, totally 75 minutes.  
Formatting
Print it (electronic pen or tablet is OK) completing it neatly showing all work right on the exam, and placing answers in the given boxes.
Can't Print?  You are invited to work on the exam on your own paper mirroring everything on the exam. Please do NOT rewrite all the problems. Just submit written solutions using this template: ME1-U26-Template.pdf
Submission Issues? Email me immediately with the PDF attached, gilliamm@oregonstate.edu
Late Submissions: No late submissions are accepted, same as an in-person exam. 
Recommend submitting what you have at 50 minutes. Then continue to work if you have extra time. 

Template: Your final (as stated below). Upload procedures are exactly the same as the last two WHW's. If you are NOT using a gradecope app, your document should be One PDF file with 5 pages uploaded directly to gradescope. 

Submissions: Gradescope App is not working for some. Read Canvas Announcement sent today 7/09 giving you ways to practice before taking the ME1. 

Page 1: Cover sheet with name and signature. (No Problems)
Page 2: Solutions to problems 1 and 2.
Prob 2, if you do NOT print, then be sure to clearly sketch the graph to illustrate your solution. 
Page 3: Solutions to problems 3 and 4.
Page 4: Solutions to problems 5 and 6.
Page 5: Solutions to problems 7 and 8.
Prob 7, if you do NOT print, you do not need to sketch the graph showing.
Submission Details
Update 7/09 - Submissions: Gradescope App is not working for some. Read Canvas Announcement sent today 7/09 giving you ways to practice before taking the ME1. 
Submissions can be hand written and scanned, completed on a tablet, or typeset.  
Easiest Method: Using the FREE Gradescope app, you can upload images directly from your phone one page at a time. See Start Here Module for a video showing uploads from a smartphone and also from a computer. 
Apple Link: Click here for Apple Link, in App Store. 
Google PlayStore Link: Click here for PlayStore download.
Use a browser search to find a link compatible with most common smartphones.
Alternate APPs: The phone/tablet APP CamScanner-Free
 (Links to an external site.)
 is one example to "scan" the written material as a PDF and upload it through your phone's Canvas Student App. 
Submissions are made in Gradescope.
Provide full solutions to all problems.
Click the link below to open Gradescope. Submit your file as one PDF.
Issues? Email your PDF immediately to your instructor to get a time stamp on your submission. 


Due Date

This exam opens Tuesday of week 3 at 12:00 am and closes Thursday of week 3 at 11:59 pm Pacific Time.

Grading

This activity is worth 50 points.

Practice Problems

Mini-Exam 1 Practice problems. 

Study Guide: Unit-1-Student-Study-Guide.pdf
Partial Solutions: Unit-1-Student-Study-Guide-Key.pdf
1.1 Riemann Sum reminder:
With Tables and Graphs --> practice left, right, midpoint sum approximations, expanding/writing out all the terms. 
Sigma notation with function f(x) --> ONLY practice the right endpoint sum approximation using sigma notation. 
Practice identifying units for the function f, the input variable x or t, and the Riemann sum approximation. 
Practice problems
1.1: 16, 25 with right sum, 32 with right sum, 34, 39, 40, 42, 43 try left, upper, lower, and midpoint sums.
Tables of data for practice: Remember that in my lecture notes we had several tables with which to practice.
1.2: 61, 63, 75, 80,  81, 83, 92, 102, 112
Take any definite integral (try 83) and express this in sigma notation with n=25 rectangles.