Hw 3 - Center of Mass & Moment of Inertia
Due Jul 12 at 11:59pm Points 12 Questions 10 Available Jul 4 at 12am - Aug 14 at 11:59pm Time Limit None Allowed Attempts 4
Instructions

Note that although Canvas calls this a "quiz," it is actually a homework assignment. Here are some things to keep in mind:

1. You are encouraged to work with others.

2. You can exit the assignment without submitting and return later to complete it.

3. You have up to four attempts to complete this assignment. Your highest score will be kept.

4. Late submissions are accepted with a one-point deduction per day after the due date, up to one week late.

5. Submissions are not accepted for credit more than one week after the due date. All correct answers for the questions will be made available at that time.

6. Vectors are indicated with an arrow on top (e.g. ) although be careful because sometimes Canvas may format this to boldface font; ! The magnitude of the corresponding vector is given in italics; .

Take the Quiz Again
 Correct answers will be available on Jul 19 at 12am.
Score for this attempt: 12 out of 12
Submitted Jul 17 at 9:23pm
This attempt took 35 minutes.
 
Question 1
2 / 2 pts
Which of the following statements are true regarding the meaning of ?
  The variable  represents the shortest (perpendicular) distance from the axis of rotation to the position of the infinitesimal mass element .
  The value of the integral (moment of inertia) depends on the choice of the axis of rotation. 
  The integration is over all mass elements () of the specified object/system in question.
  If  is expressed in terms of an object's linear/surface/volume density, the integration then becomes over the object's geometry.
  

This formula should be applied to continuous objects/systems.

For discrete point-like objects, the discrete version:  can be used. Here the sum is over the number  of point-like objects in the system,  being their respective masses and  their perpendicular distances from the desired axis.

 
Question 2
1 / 1 pts
Which of the following statements are true?
  If the x-coordinates of the center of mass of objects 1 and 2 are  and , then the center of mass of the combined, two-object system is , where  and  are their respective masses
  If the moment of inertia of object 1 about some axis is  and the moment of inertia of object 2 about the same axis is , then the moment of inertia of their combined, two-object system about that axis is 
  If the moment of inertia of object 1 about some axis is  and the moment of inertia of object 2 about the same axis is , then the total, combined moment of inertia of the two-object system about that axis is , where  and  are their respective masses
 
Question 3
1 / 1 pts

A thin rod of mass  and length  is oriented along the -axis so that it has linear mass density . One end of the rod lies at  and the other at .

What is the constant  in terms of  and ?

  
  
 
Question 4
1 / 1 pts

A thin rod of mass  and length  is oriented along the -axis so that it has linear mass density . One end of the rod lies at  and the other at .

What is the x-coordinate of the center of mass of the rod?

  
  
  
 
Question 5
1 / 1 pts

A thin rod of mass  and length  is oriented along the -axis so that it has linear mass density . One end of the rod lies at  and the other at .

What is the moment of inertia of the rod about an axis passing through the origin and perpendicular to the rod's long axis?

  
  
  
 
Question 6
1 / 1 pts

The moment of inertia of a uniform disk (mass , radius ) about the axis passing through its center and perpendicular to the plane of the disk is .

What is the moment of inertia of the disk about an axis parallel to that one, but passing through a point on the rim?

  
  
  
  
 
Question 7
2 / 2 pts

Two identical, uniform disks of mass  and radius  are stuck together at contact point  (shown below).

The two-disk system is spun about an axis passing through  and perpendicular to the plane of the disks at angular speed , so that the system has total rotational kinetic energy .

The two-disk system is then spun about an axis parallel to the previous one, but passing through  at the same angular speed  so that the system has total rotational kinetic energy .

What is the ratio ?

  
  
  
  
  
 
Question 8
1 / 1 pts

A circular hole of radius  is removed from a uniform disk (mass , radius ) at a distance  away from its center (shown below).

What is the mass of removed portion?

  
  
  
 
Question 9
1 / 1 pts

A circular hole of radius  is removed from a uniform disk (mass , radius ) at a distance  away from its center.

Consider an xy-coordinate system whose origin placed at the center of the original disk with +x pointing to the right and +y pointing upwards in the image below.

What is the y-coordinate of the center of mass of the excavated disk?

Hint: No math required.

  
  
  
  
  
 
Question 10
1 / 1 pts

A circular hole of radius  is removed from a uniform disk (mass , radius ) at a distance  away from its center.

Consider an xy-coordinate system whose origin is placed at the center of the original disk with +x pointing to the right and +y pointing upwards in the image below.

What is the x-coordinate of the center of mass of the excavated disk?

  
  
  
  
  
Quiz Score: 12 out of 12