
            




  Recent Announcementsunread,MSLC Summer Math Tutoring UpdateFrom the MSLC: 
Hi All, 
The MSLC opens today. Summer hours will be 10AM-4PM Monday to Thursday from today until August 14. Exam proctoring will be available whenever the MSLC is open. 
We will also hold virtual MSLC hours for students unable to attend in-person tutoring. This will be available 5PM-8PM PDT Monday-Thursday. 
More information about the MSLC, along with a link to the virtual MSLC on Teams, is available here:https://math.oregonstate.edu/undergraduate/mathematics-statistics-learning-center.Posted on:Jul 2, 2026, 2:50 PM

    
  
    
      
        
              INTEGRAL CALCULUS (MTH_252Z_400_U2026)
    

        
        
        
          

          
        
      
    
    
  




    Front Page
  
    
Welcome to MTH 252! --> For BOTH Sections 400 and 401
In this course we continue our study of Calculus.  More specifically we will study, abstract, and apply the idea of measuring area between two curves.  To group the content in a meaningful way, this course is split into five units:

Unit 1 - We introduce Riemann sums as a tool to approximate area by summing up the area of rectangles.
Unit 2 - We study the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus and related properties, which rely on "undoing" derivatives.
Unit 3 - We study a variety of problem-solving techniques in order to apply the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus to more complex settings.
Unit 4 - We explore various graphical applications.
Unit 5 - We apply our techniques to solve real-world problems.

We are very happy to have you in this course and look forward to working with you throughout the quarter! 
Watch this video that gives an overview of your MTH 252 Canvas course:

Course Learning Outcomes
By the end of this course, you should be able to:

Describe the definite integral as a limit of Riemann sums and illustrate and interpret definite integrals as areas and signed areas.
Evaluate integrals using basic numerical integration rules.
Apply the fundamental theorem of calculus to evaluate integrals and to differentiate integrals with respect to a limit of integration.
Use integration to find areas and volumes of regions and calculate physical quantities such as total distance traveled, displacement, work, and volume.

 
Jump to a Module

Banner Art: Education illustrations by StorysetLinks to an external site.








          