Announcements
Announcement Filter
Search discussions by title
Mark All as Read
External Feeds
Announcements List
U
unread,
Unit 2 is underway!
1 Section
SEQUENCES AND SERIES (MTH_253Z_400_U2026)
Hi everyone, I hope you are all having an awesome weekend! We are officially in Unit 2 now, and this unit will be completed during Weeks 2 and 3. Please view the Unit 2 Learning Materials page for all of the lecture videos and notes for this module.  The required assignments can be found in the Unit 2 Overview page. We do not have a required discussion board in this unit, but we have two required Web Homework assignments due in Achieve, one required Written Assignment due in Gradescope, and the Unit 2 quiz due in Week 4.  Your Unit 1 quiz grades will be posted this afternoon. As always, please don't hesitate to let me know if you have any questions! You can post them into the Unit 2 Q&A discussion board or send me an email.  Have a great rest of your week! Best, Radu.

Posted on:

Jun 29, 2026, 12:00 AM

U
Welcome to the class!
1 Section
SEQUENCES AND SERIES (MTH_253Z_400_U2026)
Welcome to MTH 253Z!  My name is Dr. Radu Dascaliuc - you may call me Radu. I look forward to working with you this term. To be successful in this course, please plan to log in to participate on several days each week. While we will not have synchronous meeting times when everyone in the class must be logged in to the course at once, there will be ongoing learning activities that require your participation. This course is designed to include student-content, student-student, and student-instructor interaction. Typical Week Course Breakdown In general, our course will fall into this pattern; I will post a weekly announcements with reminders of your assignments and due dates for the week.  A week in our course begins on Monday and ends on Sunday evening at 11:59PM Participate with your initial posts in the graded discussions** by Tuesday evenings at the end of Units 3 and 4. Complete the response post requirements - one by Thursday* and the second by the end of the week (Sunday). Online Homework Assignments (one per week) submitted in Achieve are due on Mondays for the first two assignments and Sundays for the rest. Written Homework Assignments (one per unit) submitted in Gradescope are due on Friday for the first assignment and Thursdays for the rest.  The Unit Quiz (only Units 1-4) submitted in Canvas - usually opens the last Sunday of the Unit and closes the first Monday*** of the next Unit. The Final Exam is longer quiz that is due on Tuesday in week 11. Please see the course syllabus and schedule for exact exam dates and times of the assignments *Unit 1 has the main post due on Wednesday one response post requirement - due on Sunday.**We have three graded discussions submitted during the term - one in Week 1, Week 6, and Week 9. Otherwise, all discussions are optional.***The Unit 1 Quiz will close on Tuesday, to compensate for getting up to speed in the first week.  Getting Started To begin, click on 'Modules'. Here you will find important course documents (including the syllabus and course schedule); links to student services such as the The Valley Library, Disability Access Services, Academic Integrity, and Tech Support; and an overview of our course.Once you have reviewed the 'Start Here' information you’ll be ready to move on to the weekly assignments. All content modules (Units 1 - 5) are be available now. Please be sure to read the syllabus and other information in 'Start Here,' as these essential documents contain the answers to many frequently asked questions. If you have questions after reading these materials, please visit the Discussion Board, where you will find the Q&A discussion. Please post all questions pertaining to the course in this forum. If you have questions of a personal nature, please use the Inbox or email to get in contact with me. Finally, take the Practice Quiz to familiarize yourselves with the quiz environment and practice uploading scanned solutions to the Written Answer questions.  Technical Assistance If you experience any problems while in this online course, contact 24-7 Canvas Support through the Help link.  If you experience computer difficulties, need help downloading a browser or plug-in, or need assistance logging into a course, contact the IS Service Desk for assistance. You can call (541) 737-8787 or visit the IS Service Desk online.

Posted on:

Jun 21, 2026, 12:00 PM