Module 2 | Rotation | Required Activities
Required Study

Please Note: Be sure to check the syllabus view for all due dates.

Read Chapter 12 from the course textbook. Click on MyLab and Mastering in the vertical menu to the left and open the digital textbook.
Read and study the course web pages on rigid rotation
Links to an external site.
Required Activities

Be sure to check the syllabus view for all due dates.

Complete online homework assignments: 
Hw 3
Hw 4
Complete all of the pre-lecture activities for credit for this unit.
M2-1pre
M2-2pre
M2-3pre
M2-4pre
M2-5pre
M2-6pre
M2-7pre

Complete the Labs

Participation: choose Option A or B. Complete all participation assignments due throughout the week. 
Option A: Participate live during each live Zoom lecture.

Join a live Zoom lecture.
Use Poll Everywhere during the lecture to complete the participation assignment

Note: You can get credit for participation once for each assignment. If you do the assignment in Learning Catalytics, you do not need to do the asynchronous assignment. 

A zero will appear in the Canvas grade book if you do not complete the Learning Catalytics assignment. It will be deleted when your asynchronous assignment is graded.

	

Option B: Participate asynchronously by watching the recorded Lecture Videos (posted at the bottom of the Learning Materials page for the module).

After a video is posted, you can access the corresponding asynchronous participation assignment here: 

M2-1asy
M2-2asy
M2-3asy
M2-4asy
M2-5asy
M2-6asy
M2-7asy

Feel free to switch back and forth between live participation and asynchronous participation as your schedule allows.

Take Quiz 2:
Quiz 2 notes: You are required to submit 1/2 to 1 page (8.5"x11") of equations, diagrams, etc of material pertinent to this quiz. Place photo ID on top of your notes and scan for upload to Gradescope.

All work shown for written questions must be in your own handwriting.

Option 1: Take the quiz asynchronously.

Quiz 2A_asy (Remotely Proctored)
Quiz 2A_asy_work
Quiz 2B_asy (Remotely Proctored)
Quiz 2B_asy_work
	

Option 2: Join a live Zoom session and take the quiz then.

Quiz 2A
Quiz 2A_6pm
Quiz 2B
Quiz 2B_6pm

 

Extra credit assignment (available after Quiz 2 scores are posted)

Quiz 2x



Next Steps

Be sure to complete all activities on time. You can check all due dates for the above activities by going to the syllabus view or clicking on each activity. When all of the activities of this module have been completed, move on to the next module. Please see the syllabus for the dates connected to each module. Be sure you have completed all of the steps for this module:

It is required to watch the Zoom lecture recording if you did not attend a Zoom lecture. They are posted in the Learning Materials page for each module, toward the bottom of the page, under "Lecture Videos."

Complete all pre-lecture questions for credit for this unit. For these activities, you only have two attempts for each activity (one attempt for multiple-choice questions). They will be posted 48 hours before the due date/time and due one hour before the Zoom lecture, with correct answers are shown just after the due date/time. Late submission not accepted.


Complete all participation assignments. This can be done during the Zoom lecture using Poll Everywhere. If you do not attend the Zoom lecture, you can submit an equivalent asynchronous assignment posted after the Zoom lecture.
You can get credit for one or the other, but not both. If you participate during a Zoom lecture, you do not need to do the asynchronous assignment ( If you complete M1-1 for example, you do not need to do M1-1asy). If you miss part of the questions during the Zoom lecture and want to complete the equivalent asynchronous assignment, you can do so, and you will be given credit for the asynchronous assignment. 

Previous
Next