View Split Screen
Collapse Threads
Filter by
Search entries or author...
Sort by
Due Jun 25 11:59pm
Available from Jun 21 until Aug 15
10 points possible
1 Reply
1 Reply
Unsubscribed
Manage Discussion
Discussion Topic: Lab 1 Discussion - Lab Group 22
Lab 1 Discussion - Lab Group 22
Purpose

This discussion is designed to help your group establish clear communication and identify shared availability for working together throughout the term. Use this space to discuss your weekly schedules and determine common times when your group can meet to collaborate and meet with your TA. If scheduling conflicts arise or you have concerns about availability, contact your TA as soon as possible for support.

 

Discussion Instructions

To complete your individual discussion post, open the lab handout, then post your answers to Questions Q1–Q4 in your group's discussion thread.

Your discussion is meant to initiate the lab exercise and begin the conversation that leads to finding group meeting times. 

Link to lab handout page: Lab 1 Team Building and Uncertainty Refresher

 

Coordinating With Your Group

After completing your post, begin communicating with your group to identify common meeting times.

You may use this discussion board, Zoom, Teams, email, or another platform.

As a group, you should:

confirm that all members have made contact
Start by identifying your group members. You can find your assigned group on Canvas under the “People” or “Groups” section.
compare weekly availability posted in the Google doc
identify at least one shared time for group collaboration
identify possible times to meet with your TA and secure a time slot in their schedule in the Course Information module

If your group cannot find overlapping availability, notify your lead TA so they can help resolve scheduling issues.

During this first week, anyone available early in the week is encouraged to take initiative in starting communication. Collaboration and professional communication are shared responsibilities.

 

Support Resources
Scanning Resources
How do I attach a file with my discussion reply?
Links to an external site.
How to add images in Canvas as a student
Links to an external site.
How do I add images from the web in Canvas
Links to an external site.
Zoom, Teams
Google Docs, Sheets
Reply
RL
Roshell Lamug (She/Her/Hers)
Jun 19 10:50pm
Manage Discussion by Roshell Lamug
Reply from Roshell Lamug

Welcome to PH 212!

Now that you’ve identified your group, your next step is to finalize your meeting times.

Open the Google Doc below and add your availability.
Use your initials to mark your available times.
If another group member has the same initials, use additional letters to create a unique abbreviation. For example: Jane Doe → JaD and John Doe → JoD
Google Doc link: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gzyjmoLBkVOGDtHhMcbabWekr3kLTgtqxdvD13zpCMk/edit?usp=sharing
Links to an external site.
Review your group members’ availability and identify overlapping times.
Agree on a weekly group meeting time and your preferred meeting format (Zoom, Microsoft Teams, in-person, etc.).
Find a 30-minute time block when your group can meet with a Lab TA.
Compare your group’s availability with the schedules of all Lab TAs (linked on the TA Information page).
Claim a time slot and email your TA to confirm.
Set up a group communication channel (e.g., Teams chat and/or group email) to coordinate going forward.

If your group cannot find a common time or has conflicts with all of the TA’s availability, email the lead TA as soon as possible so accommodation can be made.

Reply to post from Roshell Lamug
Reply
Mark as Unread
Mark as Unread