🤔 Project | Consequences & Implications of Science



Mars Atmosphere

Credit: NASA Hubble Space Telescope (Public Domain)

Core Education: Scientific Inquiry and Analysis Criteria

Please Note: Be sure to check the syllabus view for all due dates:  Syllabus (calendar) view

This course fulfills the Core Education outcomes in the Scientific Inquiry and Analysis category. The first two outcomes are met throughout the course in assignments and lab activities. This project focuses on the third outcome, listed below.

Utilize scientific language, concepts, hypotheses, theories, and laws of basic natural sciences.
Apply the cyclical process of science and think critically by constructing consistent explanations and drawing conclusions based on empirical evidence and current scientific understanding.
Articulate the consequences and implications of science for society, daily life, and decision-making. 
A note in the Core Education guidelines includes the following for this category: If possible, address how scientific issues impact social and environmental justice.
Description of the Project



The Greenhouse Effect

Photo credit: U.S. Government Environmental Protection Agency (Public Domain)

The project deliverable is a presentation that you will submit in Week 8. You may work alone or in a group of up to three students per group. You may share responsibilities in a group, but each person needs to submit their own unique transcript of the project.

Choose a topic in physics connected to global warming, and articulate the consequences and implications of science for society, daily life, and decision-making.

Gather information from at least two substantial credible sources (include citations). Suggested topics:

Proxy data and analysis
Greenhouse effect mechanism (how it works)
Greenhouse gas contributors
Greenhouse effect on other planets: runaway or reverse greenhouse effect
Proposed systems for controlling global warming

 

Project deliverable: Summarize your topic in presentation form. 

Your presentation can be a Video or PowerPoint presentation or PowerPoint file slide deck with comments/transcript. Detailed instructions will be in the assignment.
For a video presentation, if you work in a group, each group member must prepare and present part of the video. The video transcript needs to identify each speaker. 
For a slide deck, if you work in a group, each group member must write their own unique, detailed transcript of the slides. Basically write out what you would say if you were giving a talk using the slides.
If you work in a group, each person needs to post the finished presentation, including their part in its production.

This project must be unique: you cannot repeat a topic from a presentation you made for PH 211 or any other class.




Satellite image of ship tracks, clouds created by the exhaust of ship smokestacks.

Photo credit: By Liam Gumley, Space Science and Engineering Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison (Public Domain)

Required Activities

Here are the general milestones for this project, with details provided in the individual assignment pages:

Part 1: Brainstorming (Week 2)
Discussion assignment
Students are required to make three posts
Post 1: Introduce their idea
Post 2: reply to someone else
Post Second reply, either by responding to someone’s reply or replying to someone else
Part 2: Organizing and sharing resources (Week 5)
Discussion assignment
Post 1: Post at least one good resource on their topic
Post 2: Reply to someone posting resource on topic similar to theirs
Post 3: Second reply similar to above
Students are encouraged to find partners to work with, up to three in a group
Part 3: Submit presentations (Week 8)
Discussion assignment
Post 1: Students post presentations
Post 2: Read or view another group’s presentation
Ask a meaningful (substantial) question
Post 3: Answer any questions posed to them