
            

  




  
    Start Here - Instructor Information & Communication Policy
    

  
  
  
    
Contact Information
I am available by appointment for office hours or meetings via Zoom Monday - Friday.
I also hold scheduled drop-in zoom office hours on Thursdays 9:30-10:30AMLinks to an external site..
The best way to get in contact with me is via email at Radu.Dascaliuc@oregonstate.edu , Canvas messages, or in the General Questions discussion boards.
Communication Policy
Please post all course-related questions in the General Q&A Discussion board so the whole class may benefit from our conversation. Please send a Canvas Inbox message to your instructor for matters of a personal nature. I will reply to course-related questions and Inbox messages within 24 hours during weekdays and 48 hours on weekends.
For content related questions, you can post your questions in the individual unit Q&A discussion boards. 
Frequently Asked Questions:
How do I get in contact with my instructor? If you have any confidential questions, concerns, or grade related questions, please email me directly. If you have any content related questions, please post your question - as well as your steps to solving it so far - to the General Questions Discussion Board. This way, if other students have the same question, it can help them as well. It also allows other students to share their understanding of a topic.  Please don't hesitate to reach out when you have any questions or concerns. You can email me anytime! How long will it take to get a response to my email or discussion post? I check in with my online class discussion boards and emails daily - even on the weekends. During the week, students can expect a maximum of a 24-hour response time to emails/questions. Over the weekend, students can expect a maximum of a 48-hour response time to emails/questions. I do make every effort to answer questions quickly, even on the weekends, but there may be a time when I am not able to reply until Monday. 
How long will it take for my assignments to be graded? Homework assignments, quizzes, and the final exam, will be graded within a maximum of one week from the due dates, although it will typically be sooner than one week.
For all online homework assignments, these are auto-graded and will be updated as soon as you submit the assignment. 

  
  






  
    
      
         Previous
      
    
    
      
        Next 
      
    
  



          