
            

  




  
    Module 1 | Overview of Circular Motion
    

  
  
  
    

 
Introduction
For this module, we will focus on circular motion, including uniform circular motion (with constant speed) and non-uniform circular motion (with varying speed)
Module Learning Outcomes
After successful completion of this week, you will be able to: 

relate angular quantities of angular position, angular velocity and angular acceleration to the linear counterparts of position, velocity and acceleration
derive an angular velocity vs. time function based on an angular acceleration vs. time function
derive an angular position vs. time function based on an angular velocity vs. time function
analyze a set of correlated angular acceleration vs. time, angular velocity vs. time and angular position vs. time graphs
derive angular velocity vs. time and angular position vs. time functions for the case of constant angular acceleration
solve problems using a kinematic approach for systems exhibiting uniform circular motion (with constant speed)
solve problems using a kinematic approach for systems exhibiting non-uniform circular motion (with varying speed)
solve and analyze problems including centripetal acceleration
differentiate between real and fictitious forces involved in systems with circular motion
define physical assumptions for specific kinematic systems
specify the general kinematic equations to a specific system
graphically and symbolically represent a kinematics system with multi-stage behavior
perform analysis on a symbolic solution involving explicitly checking units and applying special cases
perform analysis on a numerical solution regarding the order of magnitude

Task List
This course is four credits, which means that according to the OSU policy, students are expected to engage in twelve hours of coursework (lectures, readings, discussions, assignments, studying) per week. (Note that depending on how strong your math skills and reading skills are, it may take you more time than that each week.) In order to meet this expectation and achieve the above learning outcomes, please make sure to complete the following this week:

Read the required sections of the textbook and study the instructional videos for this topic: Module 1 | Circular Motion | Learning Materials
Complete all required activities for this unit: Module 1 | Circular Motion | Required Activities
Complete the practice Proctorio quiz

Be sure to read the "Proctorio setup and troubleshooting" page in the Course information module first


Complete the online homework
Complete all pre-lecture questions and participation assignments
Complete the labs: 

Lab 0
Lab 1


Post in the Project Brainstorming discussion
Read the material regarding the Capstone Lab

 

  
  






  
    
      
         Previous
      
    
    
      
        Next 
      
    
  



          