
            





    
  
    
      
        
              SEQUENCES AND SERIES (MTH_253Z_400_U2026)
        
        
        
          

          
        
      
    
    
  




    Front Page
  
    

Course Overview
Welcome to MTH 253Z! I am very happy to have you in this course and look forward to working with you throughout the quarter!  In this course we will learn about infinite sequences and series. To group the content in a meaningful way, this course is split into five units:

Unit 1 (Week 1)  - In this unit, we will review indeterminate forms, L'Hospital's Rule, and improper integrals. 
Unit 2 (Weeks 2 and 3) - Here we will introduce sequences and series. What are they? How are they used?
Unit 3 (Weeks 4, 5, and 6) - In this unit, we will learn how to test series for convergence or divergence using a number of different tests. 
Unit 4 (Weeks 7, 8, and 9) - This unit covers power series, including Taylor and Maclaurin series. 
Unit 5 (Week 10) - In this last unit, we will learn about applications of Taylor and Maclaurin series, approximating sums, complex series, and the Euler Identity.
Final's Week

 
Course Learning Outcomes
 By the end of this course, you should be able to:

Recognize and define sequences in a variety of forms and describe their properties, including the concepts of convergence and divergence, boundedness, and monotonicity.
Recognize and define series in terms of a sequence of partial sums and describe their properties, including convergence and divergence. 
Recognize series as harmonic, geometric, telescoping, alternating, or p-series, and demonstrate whether they are absolutely convergent, conditionally convergent, or divergent, and find their sum if applicable. 
Choose and apply the divergence, integral, comparison, limit comparison, alternating series, and ratio tests to determine the convergence or divergence of a series. 
Determine the radius and interval of convergence of power series, and use Taylor series to represent, differentiate, and integrate functions.
Use techniques and properties of Taylor polynomials to approximate functions and analyze error. 






Start Here          Syllabus



Jump to a Unit: 












          