RQ-1.5 
Due Jul 20 at 11:59pm Points 10 Questions 4 Available after Jul 8 at 12am Time Limit None Allowed Attempts 2
Instructions
Purpose

The short quizzes provide an opportunity to improve mathematical reading and problem-solving skills. These quizzes require NO prior knowledge of the material. Students only need to skim the OpenStax textbook, study graphs/illustrations, and look for key vocabulary and notation.  


Instructions

Complete this quiz after reading through the corresponding section of the OpenStax textbook.

Reading: https://openstax.org/books/calculus-volume-2/pages/1-5-substitution
Links to an external site.

 

Take the Quiz Again
Attempt History
	Attempt	Time	Score
LATEST	Attempt 1	
Time:
2 minutes	
Score:
10 out of 10
Score for this attempt: 10 out of 10
Submitted Jul 21 at 1:51am
This attempt took 2 minutes.
 
Correct answer
Question 1
2.5 / 2.5 pts
According to the problem-solving strategies given in the reading, AFTER we Substitute u = g(x) and du = g'(x)dx in the integral. , we should now be able to evaluate the integral with respect to u. 
Answer 1:
Substitute u = g(x) and du = g'(x)dx in the integral. 
 
Correct answer
Question 2
2.5 / 2.5 pts
According to the problem-solving process for integration by substitution, we do NOT need a step to check/verify our substitution because the algorithm process always works. 
  True 
  False 

Nice work.  Like the scientific method, solving strategies can benefit from some type of reflection/verification process.

 
Correct answer
Question 3
2.5 / 2.5 pts
When applying integration by substitution for definite integrals, ∫
b
a
f(g(x))g′(x)dx=∫
g(b)
g(a)
f(u)du, it is required to convert back to the variable x for the final answer. 
  True 
  False 

Nice work! Yes, the conversion is NOT required.  By converting the x-bounds to u-bounds, you do no need to convert back with definite integrals. Note: With indefinite integrals, we DO need to convert back. 

 
Correct answer
Question 4
2.5 / 2.5 pts
By scanning the examples given in the reading, the choice of u=g(x) for the substitution appears to often be the "inner" type of function.
Answer 1:
"inner" type of 
Quiz Score: 10 out of 10
Previous
Next