
            

  



    Academic Misconduct Scenarios
    

  
    
    Academic Misconduct Scenarios for Physics
    Homework
    
        You have a homework to complete for the chapter. It looks pretty challenging, so you contact some friends in the same class to see if you can work on it together. You discover that you all arrived at different answers, but work together on the problems and eventually get to the same solutions.Is this an example of academic misconduct? Click here to reveal the answer.
            Not necessarily! It is fine to work together on homework problems, but you should make sure that you write up your own individual submission, distinct from the submissions from your peers.
        
        Your friend messages you about the latest homework for the class. Luckily for them, you completed it a few nights ago and are nice enough to help out. After around 20 minutes of questions from your friend, you see they are no closer to solving the hardest parts. It seems like it would be a lot quicker to simply send them a copy of your homework so they can read the correct answers. You are not entirely sure your friend will understand it, but they seem grateful, and you feel good about helping out.Is this an example of academic misconduct? Click here to reveal the answer.
            Yes! No matter how much you think this will help out your friend, if they copy it you have now participated in the academic misconduct violation known as 'assisting'. Additionally, it does not help your friend much to just copy the answers without understanding how to work them out. As a general rule, it is not a good idea to send completed work to peers, especially if they are asking you for answers.
        
        True/False: It is fine to work together with friends on homework, but each person should eventually upload their own unique submission. Click here to reveal the answer.
            True! Plagiarism checkers easily detect similar or identical work. Each student must have their own unique assignment submissions.
        
    
    Bi-weekly Quizzes and Exams
    
        It’s time for a Proctorio Bi-weekly quiz! As you are completing it, your phone buzzes. You see a group chat has been started and your peers are discussing questions and sharing answers. Is this an example of academic misconduct? Click here to reveal the answer.
            Yes! The most common classification of this particular academic misconduct is 'cheating'. Helping others to engage in academic misconduct is called 'assisting'.
        
        The bi-weekly quiz is published and you are anxious about a few of the topics. The section on rigid body dynamics looks especially difficult. Your quiz is open and are working on your answers. You wonder if you could ask for help from some experts and might even get the answers before time runs out.Which academic misconduct violations would you be committing by pursuing this action? Click here to reveal the answer.
            This could fall under both 'cheating' and 'plagiarism', depending on how the action is pursued. It may seem like a good idea to ask for help, and outside the academic context of the exam, it could be a completely normal course of action. The exam, however, is designed to test your personal knowledge of the subject, not your ability to ask for assistance. Additionally, by posting the questions from an exam online, you have breached exam security, which is a serious academic issue and could have considerable consequences.
        
        True/False: It is against the student code of conduct to share or discuss exam answers with other students. Click here to reveal the answer.
            True! You should not post quiz or exam questions to online sources, nor share/discuss answers with other students.
        
    
    Pre-Lecture Questions and In-Class Participation/Quizzes
    
        Your instructor gives you a pre-lecture question to work on for the upcoming lecture. Is it OK to discuss this with your peers? Click here to reveal the answer.
            Yes! This is fine. You are expected to discuss these kinds of questions before a lecture.
        
        True/False: You are in a class and the instructor sends you to a breakout room for an in-class quiz. It is OK in this context to discuss with peers. Click here to reveal the answer.
            True! You are expected to discuss things with peers within the context of a lecture and group work.
        
        True/False: You are attempting an asynchronous version of an in-class quiz. It is OK in this context to discuss with peers. Click here to reveal the answer.
            False! In a Proctorio quiz, you may not get help from anyone. However, you are free to view the day's lecture video before attempting the quiz to see a similar Zoom lecture question worked out and explained.
        
    







  
    
         Previous
    
    
        Next 
    
  



          