
            

  



    Capstone Lab Week 1
  
    

Purpose
Experimental goal: Investigate a model of a phenomenon we haven’t explored in lab. Then design, execute, and analyze an experiment to test predictions based on the model. 
In this capstone lab, you will extend your earlier investigations of oscillatory motion by exploring damping in real oscillators. While ideal models often assume frictionless motion, real systems continuously lose energy through mechanisms such as air drag, internal friction, and contact at supports. Working in groups, you will design and carry out an investigation of a damped oscillator. Over two weeks, you will develop a physical model, make testable predictions, design and perform measurements, analyze damping behavior, and communicate your results in a complete formal lab report. This project emphasizes ownership of the experimental process, thoughtful decision-making, and clear scientific communication as you evaluate how well your model describes the behavior of a real, imperfect system.
This lab activity spans two weeks. Here’s how the project is structured:  
Week 1  

Choose a phenomenon to investigate from the options below
Build a model and use it to make predictions
Design an experiment to test your predictions  

Week 2 

Perform your experiment
Determine if your results support your model 
Write a formal lab report to contain these parts:

Abstract
Introduction
Procedure
Results
Discussion
Conclusion 



 
Week 1
Step 1: Individual Discussion Post Due Wednesday
Before finalizing your experimental design for the capstone lab, you will complete a preliminary trial to become familiar with the measurement tools and data collection methods available for this project. You may choose either a simple pendulum (using video analysis) or a torsion pendulum (using the phyphox gyroscope).
The goal of this activity is not to produce final results, but to observe damped oscillations, practice using the software, and identify practical challenges that may affect your experiment in Week 2.
In your group’s discussion thread, respond to the following: 1) Indicate whether you tested a simple pendulum with Vernier Video Analysis or a torsion pendulum with phyphox, and briefly describe your setup. 2) Include a screenshot or plot of your preliminary data (e.g., position vs time or angular velocity vs time). 3) Describe whether you observed clear oscillations and evidence of damping. 4) Comment on what was straightforward and what was challenging (e.g., tracking motion, identifying peaks, noise, timing issues, setup stability). 5) Based on this initial trial, discuss what you think will be important for obtaining high-quality data in the full experiment (e.g., setup adjustments, run duration, number of oscillations, software settings).

Open discussion assignment here: Capstone Lab Week 1 Discussion
Link to lab handout page: Capstone Lab - Handout

 
Step 2: Meet with your Group and TA
After completing your individual work, meet with your group during your scheduled lab time to discuss your responses and address any remaining questions for the week 1 portion of the handout.
Then, check in with your TA during your assigned meeting slot. This meeting is an opportunity to ask questions, clarify instructions, and get support while completing the experiment. Attendance at the TA meeting counts toward your lab report grade for the week, email your TA if you cannot make your assigned meeting time.
 
Step 3: Submit Group Lab Report to Gradescope by Saturday
Work together to compile your group’s lab report. When it’s ready, submit it via Gradescope.

Submit the group report: Capstone Lab Week 1 Group Report

Important:
➡️ Make sure all group members’ names are included on the report.
➡️ When submitting to Gradescope, link each group member’s email to the file.
 
Week 2
Step 1: Individual Discussion Post Due Wednesday
In your group's discussion thread, discuss the following three questions: 1) What has been your individual contribution so far? Describe the specific tasks you have completed during the planning and preparation phase of the capstone lab.  2) What progress has your group made overall? Summarize what has already been accomplished toward completing your experiment and report. 3) What is your next step? Outline the tasks you personally will focus on in the coming week to help your group finish the experiment and write the formal lab report.

Open discussion assignment here: Capstone Lab Week 2 Discussion
Link to lab handout page: Capstone Lab - Handout

 
Step 2: Meet with your Group and TA
After completing your individual work, meet with your group during your scheduled lab time to discuss your responses and address any remaining work to formulate your formal lab report.
Then, check in with your TA during your assigned meeting slot. This meeting is an opportunity to ask questions, clarify instructions, and get support while completing the experiment. Attendance at the TA meeting counts toward your lab report grade for the week, email your TA if you cannot make your assigned meeting time.
 
Step 3: Submit Group Lab Report to Gradescope by Saturday
Work together to compile your group’s formal lab report. When it’s ready, submit it via Gradescope.

Submit the group report: Capstone Lab Week 2 Group Report

Important:
➡️ Make sure all group members’ names are included on the report.
➡️ When submitting to Gradescope, link each group member’s email to the file.








  
    
         Previous
    
    
        Next 
    
  



          