Module 6 — Written Homework (WHW 6) 🕓 3 hours 
Due Monday by 11:59pm Points 20 Submitting an external tool Available Jul 21 at 12am - Aug 5 at 11:59pm

 

Purpose

The Written Homeworks (WHWs) will give you low-stakes practice on writing full solutions to problems that pertain to the course material.  Attempting to solve these problems, whether you get a correct answer or not, is an essential part of becoming prepared for your upper-division course work.  These assignments are graded for correctness/accuracy and once in a while for completion. 

Instructions

Each Written Homework (WHW) will consist of a list of problems, either from the course textbook or an attached pdf.  These will be posted in Canvas and solutions are to be submitted in Gradescope to the corresponding assignment.

Submissions can be hand written and scanned, completed on a tablet, or typeset.  
Easiest Method: Using the FREE Gradescope app, you can upload images directly from your phone one page at a time. See Start Here Module for a video showing uploads from a smartphone and also from a computer. 
Apple Link: Click here for Apple Link, in App Store
Links to an external site.
. 
Google PlayStore Link: Click here for PlayStore download.
Links to an external site.
Use a browser search to find a link compatible with most common smartphones.
Alternate APPs: The phone/tablet APP CamScanner-Free
 (Links to an external site.)
 is one example to "scan" the written material as a PDF and upload it through your phone's Canvas Student App. 
Submissions are made in Gradescope.
Submission Formatting: For full credit, use the outline below for your submissions: 
Write you name in the top right corner of the first page.
Label the Assign as WHW #  and your section number in the top left. 
Can't Print?  Following the same format as below (or the pdf), you are invited to write out the derivatives on a lined or blank paper. 
Label the Assign as WHW#  and your section number in the top left. 
Submit your document as ONE pdf with problems on each page given below from OpenStax Calculus Volume 2.
Links to an external site.
Issues? Email your instructor a copy of your PDF immediately to get a time stamp on your submission. 
Formatting

For full credit, use the outline below for your submissions: 

Write your name in the top right corner of the first page.
Label the Assign as WHW#  and your section number in the top left. 
Submit your document as ONE pdf with problems on each page given below from OpenStax Calculus Volume 2.
Links to an external site.
 (Possibly need Volume 1
Links to an external site.
)

Final submission is ONE pdf with 6 pages. PDF: WHW6-Template.pdf
Actions

Page 1: Name, WHW#, and Solutions 3.3.137
Page 2: Solution to 3.3.142
Page 3: Solution to 3.3.151
Page 4: Solution to 3.4.182
Page 5: Solution to 3.4.197
Page 6: Solution to 3.4.216
Hint: After using a u-sub, be sure to factor the polynomial to set up for PFD.
Submission Details

Click the link below to open Gradescope. Submit your file as one PDF.

Grading

This activity is worth 20 points.

This tool needs to be loaded in a new browser window
Load Module 6 — Written Homework (WHW 6) 🕓 3 hours in a new window
Previous
Next