
            


  





  
    
      
        Mini-Exam 4 - Retake
      
    

    
    
      

      
        

      
    
  
    

  
    Due
    
          
              Sep 2 by 11:59pm
          
  
    
      Points
      50
    
    
      Submitting
      an external tool
    
  
  
    Available
    
        after Mar 13 at 12am
    
  

  



  
    
Instructions

The Mini-Exam is accessible from Monday 12:00 am to Wednesday 11:59 pm (Pacific Time).

Notes: You may ONLY use a non-graphing calculator. NO additional resources, tools, webpages, homework, nor or peers may be used.

Download/Upload/View this exam from the assignment in Gradescope:  252-400-S23 course.

Once you Open/View the exam, you have 75 minutes to complete AND upload your exam solutions.  A timer is on the Gradescope page, top-right, and will continue even if you close the page.

This is a 50 minute exam, with an extra 25 minutes to scan/picture and submit, totally 75 minutes.  

Formatting


Print it (electronic pen or tablet is OK) completing it neatly showing all work right on the exam, and placing answers in the given boxes.

Can't Print?  You are invited to work on the exam on your own paper mirroring everything on the exam. Please do NOT rewrite all the problems. Just submit written solutions using this template.


Your final document should be One PDF file with 6 pages uploaded. 
Template: ME4-Retake-Template.pdf
    
        
        Actions
    
    
        Preview
        Download
        Alternative formats
    


Page 1: Cover sheet with name and signature.
Page 2: Solutions 1
Page 3: Solutions 2, set up and evaluate
Page 4: Solution 3
Page 5: Solution 4
Page 6: Solution 5, evaluate arc length


Submission Details

Submissions can be handwritten and scanned, completed on a tablet, or typeset.  

The phone/tablet APP CamScanner-Free Links to an external site. is a simple way to "scan" the written material as a PDF and upload it through your phone's Canvas Student App.

Provide full solutions to all problems.
Click the link below to open Gradescope. Submit your file as one PDF.

Due Date
This exam opens Monday of week 3 at 12:00 am and closes Wednesday of week 3 at 11:59 pm Pacific Time.
Late Submissions

Up to 5 minutes late: 7.5% penalty
Between 5 minutes and 30 minutes late: 30% penalty
Submissions more than 30 minutes late after the original assignment is opened will NOT be accepted. 
Doubts? Email your instructor immediately with an ATTACHED copy of the exam. 

Grading
This activity is worth 50 points.
Practice Problems


Students need to have memorized antiderivatives for function types equivalent to:


Polynomials.
Poly-powers, sums/differences of power functions. 
Sine, cosine, and secant squared.
e^x and 1/x.
and substitution (U-Sub) applied to all of the function types above. 


Practice Problems:

All graphs/images will be given on the Mini-Exam. 
For all topics below, be prepared to (1) setup the integral ONLY and NOT evaluate, or (2) setup the integral and evaluate.
2.1 - Area Between Curves: 3, 9, 10, 15, 21, 27

Be sure to practice integrating along the x-axis and separately the y-axis.
Be sure to practice solving for x or y based on how you are integrating. 
For a given region, compare/contrast how many integrals it will take if you integrate along the x-axis versus integrating along the y-axis.
Needing to complete the square will NOT be on this mini-exam. 


2.2 - Slicing, Disc/Washer Methods: 71, 72, 73, 77, 85, 93, 99

Be sure to practice cross-sectional slicing method with slices perpendicular to the x-axis and separately the y-axis. 
Be sure to practice drawing sample slices to identify "outer" radius (disk method) and "inner" radius (washer method). 
Be sure to practice revolving around axes parallel to the x-axis and separately ones parallel to the y-axis.


2.3 - Shell Method: 124, 133, 134, 141, 142

Be sure to practice drawing sample slices to identify "outer" and "inner" radii as well as "upper" and "lower" heights. 
Be sure to practice revolving around axes parallel to the y-axis and separately ones parallel to the x-axis.
2.2/2.3 Comparative analysis - Given a region and an axis of rotation, which method (disk/washer or shell or both) can be used to compute the volume using only one integral. 


2.4 - Arc Length: 171, 173, 174, 183, 186

Arc length formula will be given on exam, along with a relatively easy function. Students will have to correctly use the formula and evaluate the integral. Practice problems above reflect the type of functions to expect. Be prepared to evaluate the arc length formula. 
2.4 Surface Area is NOT covered in this course. 




  





  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
  
      
          This tool needs to be loaded in a new browser window
          
              
                  Load Mini-Exam 4 - Retake in a new window
              
          
      
      
          This tool was successfully loaded in a new browser window. Reload the page to access the tool again.
      
  
  






  



  
    
      
      
      
    
    

  
    
      
        Description
          
        
        
          Please include a description
        
      
      
        Long Description
          
        
      
      
        Cancel
        Update Criterion
      
    
  
  
    
    
  


  
  
    
      Additional Comments:
    
    
    
      Cancel
      Update Comments
    
  
  
    Additional Comments:
    
    
  


  
    
  
  
    
      
        Rating Score
        Rating max score
        
        to >
          
        pts
      
      
        Rating Title
        
        
          Please include a rating title
        
      
      
        Rating Description
        
      
      
        Cancel
        Update Rating
      
    
  


  
  
  
    
      
        Rubric
      
    
    
      
        
          Title:
          
        
        
           Find Rubric
        
        
          
            Please include a title
          
        
      

      
        
          Find a Rubric
        
      

      
        Title
      
      
        You've already rated students with this rubric. Any major changes could affect their assessment results.
      

      
        
        
          
        
           
           
           
           
           
           
             
          
           
           
             
        
      
      
        Can't change a rubric once you've started using it.
           
      
    

    
      
        
          Title
        
      
      
        
          Criteria
          Ratings
          
            Pts
          
        
      
      
        

  
    
      
        
          
          This criterion is linked to a Learning Outcome
        
        
          Description of criterion
          
          
            
              
            
          
            threshold:
            5 pts
          
        
        
          
            
              
              
                Range
              
            
          
        
      

      
          Edit criterion description
          Delete criterion row
      
    
  
  
      
          
            
              
                
                  
                    5
                    to >0 pts
                  
                  Full Marks
                  
                
                blank
                  
                    
                      
                    
                    
                      
                    
                  
              
                
                  
                
            
          
          
            
              
                
                  
                    0
                    to >0 pts
                  
                  No Marks
                  
                
                blank_2
                  
                    
                      
                    
                    
                      
                    
                  
              
            
          
      
      
        This area will be used by the assessor to leave comments related to this criterion.
      
  
  
    
      
           pts
      
    
    
      
        
            /
        
        5 pts
      
    
    
       -- 
    
    
        
          
        
        
    
  


      
  
    
      
        
          
          This criterion is linked to a Learning Outcome
        
        
          Description of criterion
          
          
            
              
            
          
            threshold:
            5 pts
          
        
        
          
            
              
              
                Range
              
            
          
        
      

      
          Edit criterion description
          Delete criterion row
      
    
  
  
      
          
            
              
                
                  
                    5
                    to >0 pts
                  
                  Full Marks
                  
                
                blank
                  
                    
                      
                    
                    
                      
                    
                  
              
                
                  
                
            
          
          
            
              
                
                  
                    0
                    to >0 pts
                  
                  No Marks
                  
                
                blank_2
                  
                    
                      
                    
                    
                      
                    
                  
              
            
          
      
      
        This area will be used by the assessor to leave comments related to this criterion.
      
  
  
    
      
           pts
      
    
    
      
        
            /
        
        5 pts
      
    
    
       -- 
    
    
        
          
        
        
    
  

    

    
      
        
      
      
        Total Points:
          5 out of 5
        
      
    
  
  
    
      
        
          
          I'll write free-form comments when assessing students
        
      
        
          
            
            Remove points from rubric
          
        
        
          
            
            Don't post Outcomes results to Learning Mastery Gradebook
          
        
        
          
            
            Use this rubric for assignment grading
          
        
      
        
          
          Hide score total for assessment results
        
      
      
        
          Cancel
          Create Rubric
        
      
    
  


  

  
  

  
    
         Previous
    
    
        Next 
    
  







  
  






          