M1-1asy 
Due Jun 26 at 2pm Points 3 Questions 5 Available Jun 24 at 2pm - Aug 14 at 11:59pm Time Limit None Allowed Attempts Unlimited
Instructions
Purpose

The purpose of this activity is for you to practice applying what you are learning. This activity does count for points toward your grade, you will need to show your work, and you are graded on correctness. However, you have multiple attempts to improve your score. 

Instructions

You will see one question at a time. 

A good method for working on this assignment is to watch the posted lecture and stop it when people in the Zoom lecture are working out a problem, and work it for yourself. Then continue the lecture video to see the solution worked out. The question in the asynchronous assignment may be exactly the same, or it may have different values, or it may require a slightly different solution.

Show your work on paper, as you will be required to upload your work at the end of the assignment. If you do not show reasonable work for this, you will not get credit for the activity.

There is a short 50 word essay question at the end of the assignment asking you to discuss the concepts of the day's material.  You are required to complete this question to get credit for the day's assignment.

To get a high-quality scan for uploading to this quiz tool, use a scanning app to scan your handwritten work, and upload your scanned document. Here are some resources to help you get started:

Get a clear scan that is automatically cropped and formatted into multi-page PDF files by installing a scanning app on your phone. Here are some recommended free apps:
Genius Scan 
 (Links to an external site.)
 (available for iPhone, iPad, and Android devices). Find it at the  Apple Store 
 (Links to an external site.)
 or  Google Play. 
 (Links to an external site.)
Microsoft Office Lens 
 (Links to an external site.)
 (available for iPhone, iPad and Android). Find the app at the Apple Store or Google Play.
CamScanner 
 (Links to an external site.)
 (available for iPhone and Android). This app has the most features, and the basic package is free. However, there are subscription options available if you want to pay for the more advanced features. Find this app at the Apple Store or Google Play.
Scanner Pro 
 (Links to an external site.)
 (available for iPhone and iPad only). 
If you do not have a smartphone for scanning your work, please scan your work from a home scanner, take screenshots of your work and submit those, or type out and attach a file of a written description of the steps you took.

If you need assistance, please reach out for help from the Wormhole, office hours or email.

Take the Quiz Again
Attempt History
	Attempt	Time	Score
LATEST	Attempt 1	
Time:
17 minutes	
Score:
3 out of 3
 Correct answers are hidden.
Score for this attempt: 3 out of 3
Submitted Jun 26 at 1:52pm
This attempt took 17 minutes.
 
Question 1
1 / 1 pts

A disk is spinning at 12 radians per second, and comes to a stop in 26 seconds with constant angular acceleration.

What is the magnitude of the angular acceleration of the disk?

Enter your answer in rad/s2

 
Question 2
1 / 1 pts

A disk is spinning at 12 radians per second, and comes to a stop in 26 seconds with constant angular acceleration.

What is the direction of the angular acceleration of the disk? Explain.

  into the page 
  out of the page 
 
Question 3
1 / 1 pts

A disk is spinning at 12 radians per second, and comes to a stop in 26 seconds with constant angular acceleration.

How many revolutions does it make as it stops?

 
Question 4
0 / 0 pts
Using your own words, enter at least 50 words describing the concepts underlying the topic for today. You need to completely answer this question to get credit for this assignment.
Your Answer:

Rotational motion is similar to regular linear motion, but instead of position, velocity, and acceleration, we use angle, angular velocity, and angular acceleration. Angular velocity tells how fast something spins, while angular acceleration tells how quickly that spinning changes. When a disk slows to a stop, its angular acceleration points opposite its angular velocity. The right-hand rule helps determine whether angular velocity or angular acceleration points into or out of the page. The total angle turned can be found using rotational kinematics, then converted from radians to revolutions.

 
Question 5
0 / 0 pts

You are required to show your work for all problems to get credit for this assignment. You can write it out by hand on paper, scan your work and upload it in this question.

For help with scanning, please see Scanning Resources.

Your Answer:

M1-01.pdf
Download M1-01.pdf

Quiz Score: 3 out of 3