M1-3asy
Due Jul 1 at 2pm Points 5 Questions 7 Available Jun 29 at 2pm - Aug 14 at 11:59pm Time Limit None Allowed Attempts Unlimited
Instructions
Purpose

The purpose of this activity is for you to practice applying what you are learning. This activity does count for points toward your grade, you will need to show your work, and you are graded on correctness. However, you have multiple attempts to improve your score. 

If you got full credit for the Zoom lecture participation assignment for today, you do not need to do this asynchronous equivalent. You can get credit for one or the other, not both.

Instructions

A good method for working on this assignment is to watch the posted lecture and stop it when people in the Zoom lecture are working out a problem, and work it for yourself. Then continue the lecture video to see the solution worked out. The question in the asynchronous assignment may be exactly the same, or it may have different values, or it may require a slightly different solution.

Show your work on paper, as you will be required to upload your work at the end of the assignment. If you do not show reasonable work for all questions, you will not get credit for the activity. To get a high-quality scan for uploading to this quiz tool, use a scanning app to scan your handwritten work, and upload your scanned document. For help with producing a scan, please see the Scanning Resources document.

There is a short 50 word essay question at the end of the assignment asking you to discuss the concepts of the day's material.  You are required to complete this question to get credit for the day's assignment.

You may use multiple attempts on this assignment to improve your score.

If you need assistance, please reach out for help from the Wormhole, office hours or email.

Take the Quiz Again
Attempt History
	Attempt	Time	Score
LATEST	Attempt 1	
Time:
56 minutes	
Score:
2.5 out of 5
 Correct answers are hidden.
Score for this attempt: 2.5 out of 5
Submitted Jul 6 at 3:01am
This attempt took 56 minutes.
 
Question 1
1 / 1 pts

A Ferris Wheel of radius 42 m is rotating at a constant angular velocity of 0.16 rad/s. What is the speed of a particle on the rim of the wheel?

Enter your answer in m/s.

Remember for all asynchronous participation questions, you are required to show your work for calculations or explain your reasoning for multiple choice questions, and upload in the last question.

 
Question 2
1 / 1 pts

A person rides on a Ferris wheel of radius r at constant angular velocity ω. How does the normal force exerted on the rider from their seat at the top compare to the normal force on the rider from their seat at the bottom? Explain.

  

Ntop = Nbottom

  

Ntop > Nbottom

  

Ntop < Nbottom

 
Question 3
1 / 1 pts

A Ferris Wheel of radius 42 m is rotating at a constant angular velocity of 0.16 rad/s. What is the magnitude of the normal force on a 68 kg person from their seat when they are at the bottom of the wheel?

Enter your answer in Newtons.

 
Question 4
1 / 1 pts

A Ferris Wheel of radius 42 m is rotating at a constant angular velocity of 0.16 rad/s. What is the magnitude of the normal force on a 68 kg person from their seat when they are at the top of the wheel?

Enter your answer in Newtons.

 
Question 5
1 / 1 pts

A 1.3 g coin on a turntable at radius 0.35 m has max static friction coefficient between the coin and surface of 0.18. Find ω in rad/s such that the coin just starts to slip.

 
Question 6
0 / 0 pts
Using your own words, enter at least 50 words describing the concepts underlying the topic for today. You need to completely answer this question to get credit for this assignment.
Your Answer:

The main idea today was circular motion and how forces cause an object to keep moving in a circle. Even if speed is constant, velocity is still changing because direction changes, so there must be inward acceleration. For Ferris wheels, the normal force changes depending on position because gravity either helps or opposes the needed inward force. On a turntable, static friction provides the inward force, and slipping starts when friction can no longer supply enough centripetal force.

 
Question 7
0 / 0 pts

You are required to show your work for all problems to get credit for this assignment. You can write it out by hand on paper, scan your work and upload it in this question.

For help with scanning, please see Scanning Resources.

 M1-3.pdf
Quiz Score: 2.5 out of 5
This quiz score has been manually adjusted by -2.5 points.