Hw 7 - Waves
Due Jul 28 at 11:59pm Points 14 Questions 10 Available Jul 23 at 12am - Aug 14 at 11:59pm Time Limit None Allowed Attempts 5
Instructions

Note that although Canvas calls this a "quiz," it is actually a homework assignment. Here are some things to keep in mind:

1. You are encouraged to work with others.

2. You can exit the assignment without submitting and return later to complete it.

3. You have up to four attempts to complete this assignment. Your highest score will be kept.

4. Late submissions are accepted with a one-point deduction per day after the due date, up to one week late.

5. Submissions are not accepted for credit more than one week after the due date. All correct answers for the questions will be made available at that time.

6. Vectors are indicated with an arrow on top (e.g. ) although be careful because sometimes Canvas may format this to boldface font; ! The magnitude of the corresponding vector is given in italics; .

Take the Quiz Again
Attempt History
	Attempt	Time	Score
LATEST	Attempt 1	
Time:
37 minutes	
Score:
14 out of 14
 Correct answers will be available on Aug 4 at 12am.
Score for this attempt: 14 out of 14
Submitted Jul 30 at 1:28pm
This attempt took 37 minutes.
 
Question 1
1 / 1 pts
If you vibrate a taut string twice as fast, the speed of the waves
  doubles and the wavelength is unchanged 
  doubles and the wavelength is doubled 
  doubles while the wavelength is halved 
  is unchanged while the wavelength is doubled 
  is unchanged while the wavelength is halved 
  is unchanged and the wavelength is unchanged 
 
Question 2
2 / 2 pts

A heavy block of mass  is hung from a uniform light string of mass  and length  whose opposite end is attached to the ceiling.

If the string is plucked, what will be the speed of the wave(s) generated in the string?

  
  
  
  
 
Question 3
2 / 2 pts

Green light of frequency  and red light of frequency  traverse a distance of  within a piece of glass having refractive index .

What is the difference in the number of wavelengths traversed by each respective color?

Consider the speed of light in vacuum  to be a given quantity.

  0 
  
  
  
  
 
Question 4
1 / 1 pts

Let  denote the speed of sound.

A hawk at the Grand Canyon produces a pure tone of frequency  while flying at constant speed  directly towards a climber on the canyon wall. Some of the sound echoes off the canyon wall and back to the hawk.

What is the frequency of the hawk's screech according to the mountain climber?

  
  
  
  
 
Question 5
1 / 1 pts

Let  denote the speed of sound.

A hawk at the Grand Canyon produces a pure tone of frequency  while flying at constant speed  directly towards a climber on the canyon wall. The sound waves echo off the canyon wall and back to the hawk.

Let your answer to the previous question be . According to the hawk, what is the frequency of the hawk's echo off the canyon wall?

  
  
  
  
 
Question 6
3 / 3 pts

You perceive a sound intensity level  when a person shouts from a distance .

If the person were instead to shout just as loud into a cylindrical tube of length  and radius , what would the sound intensity level of their shout be at the opposite end of the tube?

Assume the sound propagates along the tube without transferring energy through the walls of the tube.

Hint: Remember that .

  
  
  
  
 
Question 7
1 / 1 pts

A transverse wave travels along a long, taut string.

The transverse component of the displacement of the string from its resting configuration satisfies , where  is the position along the string when at rest and  is the time relative to some reference time .

Is the wave traveling towards increasing, or decreasing ?

  Increasing 
  Decreasing 
 
Question 8
1 / 1 pts

A transverse wave travels along a long, taut string.

The transverse component of the displacement of the string from its resting configuration satisfies , where  is the position along the string when at rest and  is the time relative to some reference time .

How much time does it take the wave to traverse a distance of one wavelength?

  
  
  
  
 
Question 9
1 / 1 pts

A transverse wave travels along a long, taut string.

The transverse component of the displacement of the string from its resting configuration satisfies , where  is the position along the string when at rest and  is the time relative to some reference time .

What is the maximum speed of an element of the string due to this wave?

  
  
  
  
 
Question 10
1 / 1 pts

A transverse wave travels along a long, taut string.

The transverse component of the displacement of the string from its resting configuration satisfies , where  is the position along the string when at rest and  is the time relative to some reference time .

What is the speed of the wave?

  
  
  
  
Quiz Score: 14 out of 14